README.md, before:

# User Manager Rest Server

# Architecture

The scope of `User Manager System` is to centralize the credentials and RBAC (Role Base Access Control) to any other
application that can be on the same server or on a different one.

Is a place where all roles and permissions are managed and can be edited by application.

## How it works

Let's see the next example:

![Architecture](documentation/UserManagerSystem.svg)

On this example we have different applications that are deployed on a different server. `Application A` wants to consume
a service that is on `Application B`. For this purpose, `Application A` sends its credentials for `Application B`. A
typical user and password. But `Application B` does not have the information to know if this user is allowed to access
or not to its own API.

Then `Application B` send these credentials to the `User Manager System` that can also be on a different
server (`Server C`) and asks for the permissions on `Application B`. `User Manager System` validates the credentials and
return a list of roles for `Application B`. With this information `Application B` can generate its custom JWT to
authorize the communication between `Application A` and `Application B`.

Note that for the sake of simplicity of the example, we have omitted the connection between `Application B`
and `User Manager System`. `Application B` must also send its credentials to `User Manager System` and
receiving a JWT to allow the communication. These credentials are different that the ones provided by `Application A`.

Let's see now the same example, with more details:

![Components](documentation/UserManagerSystem%20-%20Components.svg)

`Application A` uses the library `Rest Server Security Client` for connecting to any other BiiT API. For this purpose,
reads the properties `jwt.user` and `jwt.password` from the `application.properties` that are required for
authentication purposes.

`Application B` that expose the API that `Application A` wants to consume, inherits the library `Rest Server Security`
where all authorization endpoints are defined. It includes the endpoints to obtain the JWT that will be used later
for the communication between A and B. To know if `Application A` can consume the API, it must check if the user
from `Application A` is authorized to access to them (has the relevant role). All the information about roles is on the
`User manager System`. Therefore, `Application B` must use the `User Manager System Rest Client` library to connects to
it and obtain the roles. But as the `User Manager System` also implements the `Rest Server Security` and requires a JWT
for accessing, `Application B` must also request it to `User Manager System` first (the blue arrows). This token (JWT B
on the example) will be used for any communication between `Server B` and `User Manager System` and therefore will be
used for getting the user's roles from `Application A`. Note that `Application B` has its custom
properties `jwt.user` and `jwt.password` that are related to the permissions from `Server B`.

## Remarks

Each application has its custom `jwt.user` and `jwt.password` in its `application.properties` and they must be different
between applications.

Roles definitions are only defined on the `User Manager System`. And shared among the BiiT ecosystem. Here we define
different behaviours between other applications, giving different permissions according the system needs. That means
that is possible that a correctly authenticated user does not have access to a specific API.

When generating the JWT for accessing to the `User Manager System`, also RBAC is checked, but is checked internally to
the `User Manager System` database. That means that is possible that a correctly authenticated user does not have access
to the `User Manager System` API.

### Rest module and Rest Server module

As the rest classes are used by the Rest Client are in a specific package without the spring boot repackage. The Rest
module must be deployed as a standard one in Artifactory to be use as a test dependency by Rest Client module.

The Rest Server module, includes all spring boot configuration that allows to be run as a server.

# Using User Manager Rest Client on an external application for API security

If you want to access to this server, a client is provided to help you. It includes all basic information for
Authentication and Authorization using the User Manager Server.

Include on your mvn `pom.xml` file:

```
 <dependency>
       <groupId>com.biit</groupId>
       <artifactId>user-manager-system-rest-client</artifactId>
 </dependency>
```

And include the correct path on the ComponentScan:

```
@ComponentScan({"...", "com.biit.usermanager.client"})
```

On the `application.properties` set the next property:

```
usermanager.server.url=https://testing.biit-solutions.com/user-manager-system-backend
``` 

And change the URL depending on your needs. As it is using JWT for communication, remember to set the JWT settings on the `application.properties`:

```
jwt.user=
jwt.password=
```

### Client logger

It has a custom logger. Add its configuration to the `logback.xml` file:

```
    <logger name="com.biit.usermanager.logger.UserManagerClientLogger" additivity="false" level="DEBUG">
        <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
        <appender-ref ref="DAILY"/>
    </logger>
```

# Using User Manager System Security as an Authentication and Authorization provider

Meanwhile, the `User Manager Rest Client` handles the permissions between systems, this module provides retro
compatibility to older applications that has used Liferay as an access control application. On this module you will find
all methods required to get users, roles and groups as needed on applications as ABCD or USMO. Note that
internally, it needs to connect to the `User Manager System` by a JWT, therefor a JWT account is needed for accessing.

For example, on the next figure:

![Architecture](documentation/UserManagerSystem%20-%20Authentication%20and%20Authorization.svg)

A user wants to log in on an application (let's say USMO as an example). And wants to access as a doctor on the
application. USMO first, must access to the User Manager system, and generate its custom JWT token for communicating
between the User Manager System and itself. Later, when required, use the `user-manager-system-security` library to
check if the user is a doctor or not using the JWT previously generated. That means that two accounts are involved on
the process. One account for the communication between USMO and the User manager System and the second account that is
the one that wants to be checked for RBAC purposes.

What a `doctor` can do on USMO is something that must be implemented on `USMO` and for this scope, we provide the
bean `RoleActivities`. For using this bean, you need to provide a `roleActivities.conf` file where the matching role
with a set of activities is defined:

```
my-role.permissions=use_web_service, delete_cache, hide_browser_history
my-role.translation=role.web
```

Where `my-role` is the name of the role used on the `AuthorizationService`, `permissions` are a comma separated list of
activities that are allowed on the application and `translation` is the json tag used on the translations to show the
role on the UX. The tag `translation` is optional.

## Configuration

Include on your mvn `pom.xml` file:

```
 <dependency>
       <groupId>com.biit</groupId>
       <artifactId>user-manager-system-security</artifactId>
 </dependency>
```

And include the correct path on the ComponentScan:

```
@ComponentScan({"...", "com.biit.usermanager.security"})
```

On the `application.properties` remember to set the JWT user and password for accessing to the service that will check
the user:

```
jwt.user=
jwt.password=
``` 

It has some loggers. Add their configuration to the `logback.xml` file:

```
    <logger name="com.biit.usermanager.logger.AuthenticationServiceLogger" additivity="false" level="DEBUG">
        <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
        <appender-ref ref="DAILY"/>
    </logger>
```

### Cache

Last thing, this packet uses caching to temporally store the information of a user on memory. Remember to
add `@EnableCaching` in your `@SpringBootApplication` application file.

```
@EnableCaching
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyServer {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyServer.class, args);
    }
}
```

And generate a `ehcache.xml` file in your project where you define the regions `users` and `groups`.

```
<config
        xmlns:xsi='http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance'
        xmlns:jsr107='http://www.ehcache.org/v3/jsr107'
        xmlns='http://www.ehcache.org/v3'
        xsi:schemaLocation="
        http://www.ehcache.org/v3 http://www.ehcache.org/schema/ehcache-core-3.0.xsd
        http://www.ehcache.org/v3/jsr107 http://www.ehcache.org/schema/ehcache-107-ext-3.0.xsd">



    <cache-template name="default">
        <listeners>
            <listener>
                <class>com.biit.usermanager.persistence.logger.CacheEventLogger</class>
                <event-firing-mode>ASYNCHRONOUS</event-firing-mode>
                <event-ordering-mode>UNORDERED</event-ordering-mode>
                <events-to-fire-on>CREATED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>UPDATED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>EXPIRED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>REMOVED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>EVICTED</events-to-fire-on>
            </listener>
        </listeners>
        <resources>
            <heap>2000</heap>
            <offheap unit="MB">100</offheap>
        </resources>
    </cache-template>

    <cache alias="users" uses-template="default">
    </cache>

    <cache alias="groups" uses-template="default">
    </cache>

    <cache alias="roles" uses-template="default">
    </cache>
</config>
```

# Testing an external application

If you want to test your application without connecting to the User Manager System, you can use the dependency

```
 <dependency>
       <groupId>com.biit</groupId>
       <artifactId>user-manager-system-test</artifactId>
       <scope>test</scope>
 </dependency>
```

This application include a basic AuthenticatedUserProvided that handle user on memory rather than accessing to the API.
For defining custom roles of your application, you need to add on the `application.properties` of your test the
property:

```
user.provider.test.authorities=ADMIN,VIEWER
```

# Dependencies

As it uses `Rest Server Security`, all configurations for this library must be configured. Check the project for a
deeper information.

Commit message:

Fixed user-manager-client not using correctly authorities.

README.md, after:

# User Manager Rest Server

# Architecture

The scope of `User Manager System` is to centralize the credentials and RBAC (Role Base Access Control) to any other
application that can be on the same server or on a different one.

Is a place where all roles and permissions are managed and can be edited by application.

## How it works

Let's see the next example:

![Architecture](documentation/UserManagerSystem.svg)

On this example we have different applications that are deployed on a different server. `Application A` wants to consume
a service that is on `Application B`. For this purpose, `Application A` sends its credentials for `Application B`. A
typical user and password. But `Application B` does not have the information to know if this user is allowed to access
or not to its own API.

Then `Application B` send these credentials to the `User Manager System` that can also be on a different
server (`Server C`) and asks for the permissions on `Application B`. `User Manager System` validates the credentials and
return a list of roles for `Application B`. With this information `Application B` can generate its custom JWT to
authorize the communication between `Application A` and `Application B`.

Note that for the sake of simplicity of the example, we have omitted the connection between `Application B`
and `User Manager System`. `Application B` must also send its credentials to `User Manager System` and
receiving a JWT to allow the communication. These credentials are different that the ones provided by `Application A`.

Let's see now the same example, with more details:

![Components](documentation/UserManagerSystem%20-%20Components.svg)

`Application A` uses the library `Rest Server Security Client` for connecting to any other BiiT API. For this purpose,
reads the properties `jwt.user` and `jwt.password` from the `application.properties` that are required for
authentication purposes.

`Application B` that expose the API that `Application A` wants to consume, inherits the library `Rest Server Security`
where all authorization endpoints are defined. It includes the endpoints to obtain the JWT that will be used later
for the communication between A and B. To know if `Application A` can consume the API, it must check if the user
from `Application A` is authorized to access to them (has the relevant role). All the information about roles is on the
`User manager System`. Therefore, `Application B` must use the `User Manager System Rest Client` library to connects to
it and obtain the roles. But as the `User Manager System` also implements the `Rest Server Security` and requires a JWT
for accessing, `Application B` must also request it to `User Manager System` first (the blue arrows). This token (JWT B
on the example) will be used for any communication between `Server B` and `User Manager System` and therefore will be
used for getting the user's roles from `Application A`. Note that `Application B` has its custom
properties `jwt.user` and `jwt.password` that are related to the permissions from `Server B`.

## Remarks

Each application has its custom `jwt.user` and `jwt.password` in its `application.properties` and they must be different
between applications.

Roles definitions are only defined on the `User Manager System`. And shared among the BiiT ecosystem. Here we define
different behaviours between other applications, giving different permissions according the system needs. That means
that is possible that a correctly authenticated user does not have access to a specific API.

When generating the JWT for accessing to the `User Manager System`, also RBAC is checked, but is checked internally to
the `User Manager System` database. That means that is possible that a correctly authenticated user does not have access
to the `User Manager System` API.

### Rest module and Rest Server module

As the rest classes are used by the Rest Client are in a specific package without the spring boot repackage. The Rest
module must be deployed as a standard one in Artifactory to be use as a test dependency by Rest Client module.

The Rest Server module, includes all spring boot configuration that allows to be run as a server.

# Using User Manager Rest Client on an external application for API security

If you want to access to this server, a client is provided to help you. It includes all basic information for
Authentication and Authorization using the User Manager Server.

Include on your mvn `pom.xml` file:

```
 <dependency>
       <groupId>com.biit</groupId>
       <artifactId>user-manager-system-rest-client</artifactId>
 </dependency>
```

And include the correct path on the ComponentScan:

```
@ComponentScan({"...", "com.biit.usermanager.client"})
```

On the `application.properties` set the next property:

```
usermanager.server.url=https://testing.biit-solutions.com/user-manager-system-backend
``` 

And change the URL depending on your needs. As it is using JWT for communication, remember to set the JWT settings on
the `application.properties`:

```
jwt.user=
jwt.password=
```

### Client logger

It has a custom logger. Add its configuration to the `logback.xml` file:

```
    <logger name="com.biit.usermanager.logger.UserManagerClientLogger" additivity="false" level="DEBUG">
        <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
        <appender-ref ref="DAILY"/>
    </logger>
```

# Using User Manager System Security as an Authentication and Authorization provider

Meanwhile, the `User Manager Rest Client` handles the permissions between systems, this module provides retro
compatibility to older applications that has used Liferay as an access control application. On this module you will find
all methods required to get users, roles and groups as needed on applications as ABCD or USMO. Note that
internally, it needs to connect to the `User Manager System` by a JWT, therefor a JWT account is needed for accessing.

For example, on the next figure:

![Architecture](documentation/UserManagerSystem%20-%20Authentication%20and%20Authorization.svg)

A user wants to log in on an application (let's say USMO as an example). And wants to access as a doctor on the
application. USMO first, must access to the User Manager system, and generate its custom JWT token for communicating
between the User Manager System and itself. Later, when required, use the `user-manager-system-security` library to
check if the user is a doctor or not using the JWT previously generated. That means that two accounts are involved on
the process. One account for the communication between USMO and the User manager System and the second account that is
the one that wants to be checked for RBAC purposes.

What a `doctor` can do on USMO is something that must be implemented on `USMO` and for this scope, we provide the
bean `RoleActivities`. For using this bean, you need to provide a `roleActivities.conf` file where the matching role
with a set of activities is defined:

```
my-role.permissions=use_web_service, delete_cache, hide_browser_history
my-role.translation=role.web
```

Where `my-role` is the name of the role used on the `AuthorizationService`, `permissions` are a comma separated list of
activities that are allowed on the application and `translation` is the json tag used on the translations to show the
role on the UX. The tag `translation` is optional.

## Configuration

Include on your mvn `pom.xml` file:

```
 <dependency>
       <groupId>com.biit</groupId>
       <artifactId>user-manager-system-security</artifactId>
 </dependency>
```

And include the correct path on the ComponentScan:

```
@ComponentScan({"...", "com.biit.usermanager.security"})
```

On the `application.properties` remember to set the JWT user and password for accessing to the service that will check
the user:

```
jwt.user=
jwt.password=
``` 

It has some loggers. Add their configuration to the `logback.xml` file:

```
    <logger name="com.biit.usermanager.logger.AuthenticationServiceLogger" additivity="false" level="DEBUG">
        <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE"/>
        <appender-ref ref="DAILY"/>
    </logger>
```

### Cache

Last thing, this packet uses caching to temporally store the information of a user on memory. Remember to
add `@EnableCaching` in your `@SpringBootApplication` application file.

```
@EnableCaching
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyServer {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyServer.class, args);
    }
}
```

And generate a `ehcache.xml` file in your project where you define the regions `users` and `groups`.

```
<config
        xmlns:xsi='http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance'
        xmlns:jsr107='http://www.ehcache.org/v3/jsr107'
        xmlns='http://www.ehcache.org/v3'
        xsi:schemaLocation="
        http://www.ehcache.org/v3 http://www.ehcache.org/schema/ehcache-core-3.0.xsd
        http://www.ehcache.org/v3/jsr107 http://www.ehcache.org/schema/ehcache-107-ext-3.0.xsd">



    <cache-template name="default">
        <listeners>
            <listener>
                <class>com.biit.usermanager.persistence.logger.CacheEventLogger</class>
                <event-firing-mode>ASYNCHRONOUS</event-firing-mode>
                <event-ordering-mode>UNORDERED</event-ordering-mode>
                <events-to-fire-on>CREATED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>UPDATED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>EXPIRED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>REMOVED</events-to-fire-on>
                <events-to-fire-on>EVICTED</events-to-fire-on>
            </listener>
        </listeners>
        <resources>
            <heap>2000</heap>
            <offheap unit="MB">100</offheap>
        </resources>
    </cache-template>

    <cache alias="users" uses-template="default">
    </cache>

    <cache alias="groups" uses-template="default">
    </cache>

    <cache alias="roles" uses-template="default">
    </cache>
</config>
```

# Testing an external application

If you want to test your application without connecting to the User Manager System, you can use the dependency

```
 <dependency>
       <groupId>com.biit</groupId>
       <artifactId>user-manager-system-test</artifactId>
       <scope>test</scope>
 </dependency>
```

This application include a basic AuthenticatedUserProvided that handle user on memory rather than accessing to the API.
For defining custom roles of your application, you need to add on the `application.properties` of your test the
property `user.provider.test.authorities`:

```
jwt.secret=asd123
jwt.expiration=604800000
jwt.ip.check=false
jwt.user=admin
jwt.password=asd123
user.provider.test.authorities=ADMIN,VIEWER
```

If you do not set the parameter `user.provider.test.authorities`, by default has already the value `ADMIN,VIEWER`.

# Dependencies

As it uses `Rest Server Security`, all configurations for this library must be configured.
Check [this project](https://git.biit-solutions.com/BiiT/RestServicesSecurity) for extra information.
